[Music]  you're watching throttle house i'm  thomas  and i'm james  and this  is the c7 corvette zr1  zr1  whatever  [Music]  this is the zr1 the absolute peak of the  c7 generation of corvette  they threw everything at it with an  upgraded z06 engine it makes  755 horsepower but it's a car that's as  much made for straight-line violence as  it is crushing cornering forces and  since we've already tested the now  legendary dodge viper acr a streetcar  that has topped our leaderboard let's  see how chevy's answer fares at our  track and whether or not it too shall  become a legend  150  170  200  2 30 us past our finish  i once said that happiness is on the  other side of 7000 rpm it turns out  insanity is on the other side of 700  horsepower  and that is a lot of performance  for 140 000 canadian which is what this  was when it came out that's less than  what base c8s are going for now  [Music]  except it's not 140 grand anymore you  see cars like these have skyrocketed in  price  if you want a zr1 now you're going to  have to shell out about 250 grand  canadian that's 100  dollars more than when they were new  that's a big price and it's caused by a  small problem you see there's no  inventory in new cars right now which  has driven up the price of both new and  used cars  and the reason for that apparently is  due to a shortage  of these  oh that makes more sense also this is a  crisp not a chip  [Music]  whatever the reason  it's expensive  so it better be good  and this car is very very very very very  good  let's start with the power supercharged  insane sound coming through the cabin i  think it's louder in here than it is  outside which is great because i'm the  one that wants to experience it  now it doesn't rev out much it's no 911  gt3  but compared to the viper  it's a much more charismatic engine  [Music]  the gt3  kind of winds up to 9000 rpm in this  musical note and the viper kind of just  drones  this is the equivalent  of someone just shaking you awake  there's so much urgency  i mean this is a car that's made to put  lap times on the board  and smiles on your faces that's what  it's all about that's why you're now  paying for some reason quarter of a  million dollars  and it does  that dangerously  that is exhilarating  also we have it today  in the 8-speed automatic you can get  this in a manual  but this is the 8-speed and  i wonder  if it might just be the only weak point  of this car  because  thomas is going to talk about the  handling a bit more later  and the insane grip levels  but from a transmission point of view  even though the shifts themselves are  quite quick they take a second to decide  that they want to shift after you've hit  the paddle  so you kind of have to time it  if you wait till the red line  you're going to hit the rev limiter for  a second  [Music]  and if i switch it to automatic mode  i've lost that sense of control it  doesn't seem to be able to work out when  it should shift  so i still prefer the manual shift mode  but i think faced with the decision i'd  prefer the manual the manual manual  one thing's for certain  very few cars  move in a straight line the way this car  does  i concur i concur with james  it's got some poke  oh my god the noise too it's not as much  supercharger and induction noise as it  is  exhaust  okay  the chassis what do we have here  this has got the ztk package  which gives it specially tuned dampers  different springs  the big wing and some cup two tires and  i can tell you that  it makes this car  on our tight little twisty track a type  of track where it shouldn't belong  right at home  those dampers are amazing  it's just soaking everything up  there's bumps at this track that i  usually avoid in certain sports cars i'm  not even avoiding them in this i can  just drive right over it  and the steering is really heavy  really heavy  and it just weights up in such a  perfectly natural fashion in the  corners it's it is a failing of the c8  it does have steering as good as this i  guess we'll have to wait and see what  the z06 and the zr1 of the c8 generation  do but  as far as the base c8 goes it's got a  numb front end compared to this  this is telling me what's going on  there's an apex there's an apex  very characteristic of a c7  if you go in on the brakes or off  throttle the corner entry oversteers  makes it a bit of a bit of a handful you  got to really pay attention so basically  you've got oversteer on corner entry and  then if you even think about using the  throttle  you've got oversteer on exit too  yeah like the acr it's not super easy to  do that it doesn't want to it wants to  grip  but of course you can you have 755  horsepower you can do whatever you want  do adrift  you know i i've always wanted to drive  this car ever since i saw it  come out and  as a send-off  for the c7 chassis  this is this is one to remember it  really is this is one of the all-time  great corvettes  [Music]  okay the lap time as usual our rules are  one warm-up lap and only three hot laps  and you're watching the fastest lap so  the zr1 this is the only other car other  than the viper that we've tested where i  opted for a racing suit it's a very  serious machine and the speeds are high  i drove it with all of the traction  stability off and in manual shifting  mode because the transmission just  couldn't seem to figure out when to  shift but other than that it's an  amazing car to limit it's definitely  more prone to oversteer than the viper  and not as planted so i'm being  incredibly careful with the throttle to  try and get as much power down as i can  coming out of the corners this is a very  engaging car to drive once you get the  hang of the speed and the handling  characteristics it's actually quite an  easy car to drive fast let's finish the  lap  [Music]  [Applause]  ah okay  oh i'm buzzing for you i this  this guy excited me so much more than i  thought it would i had no preconceived  notions it's a very it's a very serious  but very like exciting car also like i  know we already talked about the  steering weight but like it really  really  really wakes up it reminds me of like a  fully unassisted steering car well the  cup twos massively help with that  yes yes they always add some weight okay  so  do you remember the uh the top top few  cars yes the top is currently occupied  in order bac mono yep  acr viper yep gt3 they occupy the sevens  yeah followed by the tens which are the  two css the m2 and the m5 right okay so  you ready  mike so well you don't want to hit my  guess i do i'm sorry i'm sorry yes i do  want to hear your guess go ahead uh i  didn't really have one  i'm guessing halfway in between at 108.5  what do you mean what do you mean your  guess is 108.5 it's exactly halfway  between the sevens and the tens and  that's i think where this you've been  doing this too long  so that's exactly right it's right it's  exactly right i'm gonna go buy a lottery  ticket it is  this little  108.59  wow i got that within a tenth yeah okay  okay be excited about the car not your  guess james  i've never seen it last time i learned  about the viper time you also showed me  the stupid t-shirt with the weight  compressed less and less that was  amazing i actually don't by the way i  don't remember what that phrase is ephra  it's the lighter air they made the air  compressing lighter air conditioning  weight or less got it  that's a nuts time for a nuts car it is  a nuts car and you know what that makes  perfect sense because okay honestly the  transmission was the biggest issue for  me as a driver yeah you would you'd  rather have the  manual  i tried it  i tried it in in auto  and it didn't jive with me it wasn't  like figuring out the corners exactly  and then i i just had to run it in  manual mode and i just basically had to  be constantly thinking about the shifts  i don't remember that being the case on  the camaro on the zl1 no no the camaro  was a little bit faster 10 speed it was  a little bit faster something to do with  the tuning in this i don't really know  what it is but the the pull on the  straights and the noise and it's just  wicked it's just wicked this is more fun  to drive than the viper acr it is less  oppressive inside yes also like with a  helmet i fit comfortably like as a  driver like over six feet you'd probably  be able to track this car it's honestly  a  it is a really really really great bike  and i've been kind of like afraid of  this car yeah ever since i saw it  because i was like i've driven i've  driven the the c7 around the track a lot  and that car was pretty dicey uh going  into corners i figured 06 you mean uh uh  yes 06. sorry yes  this is also a c7 that's right yeah  sorry so the 06 was all was pretty dicey  going into the corners this one does do  the same corner entry oversteer but it's  not it's more planted it's more drivable  yeah you're right now you're not as  flustered as you were in the viper the  viper the viper was like very flustering  because it was so like hot and compact  and loud yeah this one was a much nicer  thing to drive it's more car like it is  also the damping is fantastic in this  like there's a bump on the outside of  like a turn six that i always miss with  cars didn't have to miss it and this is  right over it i love it yeah it's like  some of the best damping i've seen in a  track car but do you know what this has  in common with the viper what's that  they're both a fortune now i know like  how much is this how much these these  are 250 now canadian  and you know what i've noticed  it's like no one panics yeah when  everything goes according to plan yes  you know if if a rare ferrari doesn't  lose value yeah  it's fine  if if a lamborghini that costs 2 million  is now 3 million yeah it's fine yeah but  if i tell someone that their favorite  little corvette is now 250 grand  everyone loses everybody loses demise  you all know how i got these cars  i over leverage to remortgage my house  like did you have a coffee today you  don't normally drink coffee i don't  drink caffeine caffeine i just i just i  think we've i don't think people have  said it enough we've witnessed the most  ridiculous surge in used carbohydrates  this is you can get these for cheaper in  the u.s than you can in canada and then  more of them and there is a mid-engine  z06 coming yeah so so how long can this  maintain its its superiority i think  what being the last front engine rear  drive corvette ever and like the halo of  the entire front engine rear drive like  lineage this will probably do fine to  some people this is the last one this is  the last true corvette right  and to be perfectly honest it it has  this like brutality in a straight line  that i really dig the the the core the  c8 is going to be a lot more european  this feels  just like  being like beaten in the back with a  baseball bat wrapped in an american flag  it's wonderful it really is i actually  like almost a rough childhood  um all right so it looks different to  zelo six not not crazy  the front end is significantly different  though yes  i think they've done a great job with  this this looks fantastic there's a lot  of decals on this at the moment it is  yeah yeah because the uh the owner  tracks it and races it um but the the  the the hood is really cool because like  that is a little cowling over top of the  intake manifold when the hood comes up  there's a big hole just big hole it's  really cool yeah it's like it's like the  uh the tank tops where it goes all the  way down you can just see most of  someone's body  that's that was my first thought as well  yeah  i saw it the other day okay  it's got the wheels it's got more carbon  fiber yeah you've got this nuts wing  because this has that said ztk speaking  of nuts wings though it is in that swing  but it is not as nuts as the viper acr  with we looked at the downforce with the  crate yes this does 750 pounds of  downforce i think i think it's like 900  something and then the but the viper  does 17 something like 14 or 17. yeah  we'll put the real numbers we don't  remember them yeah it's under a thousand  ones over a thousand but no seriously  this is this is a great looking car like  the proportions of the c7 were always  fantastic i love i love the way that  this kind of the rear end sits and how  long the hood is yeah and it's i i think  it's a great looking car it's fantastic  i i think though  the c8 mastered the the look of the new  cabin so i'm curious what happens when  you jump back even just a couple of  years okay see if it's held up okay  okay yeah so the c8 has done a great job  bringing this into the modern world yeah  yeah yeah it did this is a bit well i  mean this is the end of the c7 it is the  right and it's a lot more palatable at  the msrp of 140. yeah now it's 250. it  starts to like you're competing with new  gt3s this is the price of a new gt3 yeah  and that starts to be i mean they're  performance-wise though they're pretty  close they all just took it they are and  this is more insane  this is more  fun i would say in its own way the gt3  is more like you know precision this is  more like just excitement but no there's  lots of stuff in here that i really dig  right we got the leather everywhere  stitching right there's there's carbon  fiber everywhere on the steering wheel  on the dashboard there's alcantara it  says zr1 right there which is really  neat okay so you're sticking to z now i  just i've been flopping back and forth  flippity-flopping yeah if i say an equal  number of each i can't upset everyone  because americans feel that they are 50  of the world i think you'll upset  everyone you'll upset everyone by doing  that yeah you're probably right um okay  so listen there's there's there's not a  lot of bad stuff in here i just think  the overall design has not aged super  well  so i mean the seats are also these are  not the full carbon fiber kind of bucket  things right this is these are you know  those are a little bit better for a tall  person i've heard  these those are better yeah well this is  strange because it is it's got the zt  cape it's got all the crazy performance  stuff yeah you just thought you'd go for  the buckets i don't know i don't mind  these seats actually they held me in  just fine i find them pretty comfortable  right  you know what dominates the interior of  this car  is that massive cowl in here yeah it's  huge it's like you can't you can't even  just like you can't see anything in the  road in front of you parking this is not  super it's a carbon fiber buttress it is  exactly that's the first time i've used  the word buttress i hope it's correct  um  that's not correct but i was just gonna  give it to you buttress  anyway  this is not bad i think  this is this car's about performance no  one's gonna care or remember this stuff  they're gonna remember 700 755  horsepower  right they're going to remember  supercharged v8 like that's the things  that people are going to take home all  right so here's here's a tough question  remember 16 injectors  yes that is a lot of vaccines  so  here's a question for you a tough  question okay  similar price  manual all things the same  vibration  or corvette to that one that's honestly  a difficult question yeah because this  is actually a little bit more fun to  drive around the track and potentially  more livable in the world i'd say  definitely more livable but doesn't it  doesn't have nearly the presence no the  viper acr feels more collectible when we  when we saw that we went we're like what  on earth is that yeah it has it has that  like holy crap this thing is neat  um  and like you get to tell crazy stories  about the viper like the the the  designer put it on the back of his  trailer and tried to tow it and it slow  it reduced his top speed on the highway  because there's so much downforce right  like that that that viper is still to  this day one of the most insane things  i've ever driven and i think in terms of  specialness it's just above this but in  terms of ownership this one is probably  nicer to actually have  i agree there you go yeah  so there we have it in a duel of viper  acr versus zr1 the corvette represents  the more livable  animated option  no it doesn't quite match up to the  acr's time on our track but we are still  talking about the absolute upper echelon  of american performance cars here  the question for this corvette then is  will the incoming c806 and zr1 variants  be so good that they make this car just  another page in corvette history or will  the c7 zr1 always stand on its own  we'll just have to wait and see  thanks for watching  [Music]  [Music]